# PersonalProjects

In this repository, you can find some of my personal projects:

1. [Development of a Fraud Detection algorithm for Credit Card operations](https://github.com/LeonardoGoncRibeiro/PersonalProjects/blob/main/FraudDetection_CreditCard/FraudDetection_CreditCard.ipynb): In this file, I develop a fraud detection algorithm for credit card operations. First, I try to understand how each feature is related to the target. Then, I perform some simple feature transformations to make them easier to deal with. Then, I test a variety of Machine Learning models, checking how each model performs. In the end, I am able to define a model which shows a recall of 100% and a precision of 98.64% (metrics evaluated from the test set).

2. [Deploy of a fraud detection model on a website](https://github.com/LeonardoGoncRibeiro/PersonalProjects/tree/main/Django_CreditCardFraud_Heroku/setup): In this file, I show how to setup a Django project for the deploy of the credit card fraud model. The model can be used from [here](https://eval-credit-card-fraud.herokuapp.com/).

3. [Development of a Fraud Detection algorithm for Online Payments](https://github.com/LeonardoGoncRibeiro/PersonalProjects/blob/main/FraudDetection_OnlinePayments/FraudDetection_OnlinePayments.ipynb): 
In this file, I develop a similar fraud detection algorithm but now focused on online payment transactions. Again, I try to understand how each variable is related to the target. Since this is a more difficult problem, I try to optimize the prediction threshold by prioritizing recall over precision so that we can detect when fraud is happening. I also show you how to deploy our model using pickle, and I show you how to test multiple inputs in a nicer environment using ```ipywidgets```.

4. [Development of a Credit Scorecard](https://github.com/LeonardoGoncRibeiro/PersonalProjects/blob/main/EvaluatingCreditScore/CreditScorecard.ipynb): In this file, I develop a credit score algorithm for a dataset from a Kaggle competition. Using information from the customer's record and history, I can set a credit score for the customer, which reflects the likelihood that an individual will pay off a debt. Credit scorecards are interesting because they can be shown to the customer, as revealing probabilities can be unethical.

5. [Analysis of Time Series: Stock price analysis and prediction](https://github.com/LeonardoGoncRibeiro/PersonalProjects/blob/main/Investments_TimeSeriesAnalysis/StockPrice_Analysis_and_Prediction.ipynb): In this file, I perform a time series analysis on the stock price of some stocks in the IBOV index. First, I try to analyze which were the best stocks of 2021, considering both risk and return. Then I develop two different algorithms to help the user understand when to buy and sell stocks. These algorithms were tested in the period from January to April 2022, and we show that the proposed approaches are capable of obtaining high returns in this period.

6. [Customer Segmentation using data from OLIST](https://github.com/LeonardoGoncRibeiro/PersonalProjects/blob/main/CustomerSegmentation/CustomerSegmentation_OLIST.ipynb): In this file, I perform customer segmentation using OLIST data. First, I try to define metrics for an RFM (Recency-Frequency-Monetary) analysis. So I group our customers and segment them based on these three aspects. In the end, I try to propose adequate marketing campaigns for each client.

7. [Exploratory Data Analysis on data from ENEM 2020](https://github.com/LeonardoGoncRibeiro/PersonalProjects/blob/main/01_ENEM_EDA.ipynb): In this file, I perform an Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) on data from ENEM 2020. I draw some important inferences of the sample of students who signed up and attended to the test. Here, we were able to use visualization tools and hypothesis tests to show that there is a clear inequality, and that interventions may be necessary.
